The President:
In recent days, we've seen
turmoil and tragedy around the
world, from change in the Middle
East and North Africa to the
earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
As I said on Friday, we will
work with our partners in the
region to protect innocent
civilians in Libya and hold the
Gaddafi regime accountable.
And we will continue to stand
with the people of Japan in
their greatest hour of need.
As we respond to these
immediate crises abroad,
we also will not let up in our
effort to tackle the pressing,
ongoing challenges
facing our country,
including accelerating
economic growth.
That's why, over the weekend,
I'll be in Latin America.
One of the main reasons for my
trip is to strengthen economic
partnerships abroad so that we
create good jobs here at home.
Latin America is a part of the
world where the economy is
growing very quickly.
And as these markets grow, so does
their demand for goods and services.
The question is, where are those
goods and services going to come from?
As President, I want to make sure
these products are made in America.
I want to open more markets
around the world so that
American companies can do more
business and hire more of our people.
Here's a statistic to explain
why this is important.
Every $1 billion of goods and
services we export supports more
than 5,000 jobs in
the United States.
So, the more we sell overseas, the
more jobs we create on our shores.
That's why, last year, I set a
goal for this country: to double
our exports by 2014.
And it's a goal we're
on track to meet.
Part of the reason why is the
rapid growth of Latin America,
and their openness
to American business.
We now export more than three
times as much to Latin America
as we do to China, and our
exports to the region will soon
support more than two million
jobs here in the United States.
Brazil, the first stop on
our trip, is a great example.
In 2010, America's exports
to Brazil supported more than
250,000 American jobs.
These are jobs at places like
Capstone Turbine in California,
which recently sold $2 million
worth of high-tech energy
equipment to Brazil.
Another company
is Rhino Assembly,
a small business in Charlotte,
North Carolina that sells and
repairs tools for
building cars and planes.
A deal with a distributor in
Brazil has resulted in new sales
and new employees at that firm.
And we can point to large
companies like Sikorsky,
whose helicopter sales to
Brazil help sustain a large,
skilled workforce in
Connecticut, Alabama,
and Pennsylvania.
Today, Brazil imports more goods
from the United States than from
any other nation.
And I'll be meeting with
business leaders from both
countries to talk about how we
can create even more jobs by
deepening these economic ties.
After Brazil, I will
also visit Chile,
a country with a
growing economy,
and increasing demand
for American goods.
In fact, since 2004, our
exports there are up 300%,
and now support about 70,000
jobs here in the United States.
Finally, we'll head
to El Salvador,
a nation with so much promise
for growth with the potential to
benefit both of our nations.
We've always had a special bond
with our neighbors to the south.
It's a bond born of
shared history and values,
and strengthened by the millions
of Americans who proudly trace
their roots to Latin America.
But what is clear is that in
an increasingly global economy,
our partnership with these
nations is only going to become
more vital.
For it's a source of
growth and prosperity --
and not just for the
people of Latin America,
but for the American
people as well.
Thanks.